It was humiliating reading in the press
what had happened.
I got fired twice in 6 months
unless we could raise funding.
I was never paid.
There weren't going to be any jobs.
And after 6 months, I just thought, I
can't work with this person.
You had a tough time.
Really damaging to me and my mental
health.
Tom didn't think I was capable
and so I resigned.
Nothing was going to stop Stalin
succeeding.
People don't start banks and if they do
start a bank, they are probably a
billionaire. When I started talking to
people about I'm going to start a bank,
you know, I could see people thinking I
was totally crazy. I hadn't raised a
penny. The only money that gone into the
business was my money. And he said, "No,
I'm not going to give you 3 million. I'm
going to give you 48." I have the
privilege of running Staling. And it is
a privilege and there's lots of things
going wrong and lots of pressures on me,
but it's a great privilege to have.
If you've been listening to this podcast
for a while, you would have heard the
episode I did with Tom Blumfield. He was
the former CEO and founder of Monzo
Bank, one of the big fintech disruptor
banks here in the UK. And during that
episode, he also tells us the story of
his time at Stling Bank, the rival bank
that he co-founded with Anne Bowden. And
that episode is dramatic. It should be a
movie. They talk about their fallout. In
the episode, Tom claims that Anne fired
16 members of staff in the same day. So,
in this episode, Anne wanted to come in
to tell her side of the story, but also
to tell her story. And it's an
incredible story. It's an inspiring
story. It's a story that doesn't quite
make sense in the fact that she's
achieved so much in an industry where
she was an underdog at an age when she
also admits she is an underdog,
confronting stereotypes that make her an
underdog. And despite the odds being
stacked against her, she's built a
multi-billion
dollar bank here in the UK. It really is
a crazy story, one that I believe one
day will be a Netflix show. Think about
that. Two people came together to take
on the banking world. They came together
and founded a bank called Starling Bank.
They had this major blow up. They
separated and starts again and they both
build incredibly successful multibillion
dollar banks individually. It is one
hell of a story. It twists, it turns,
and it inspires you. So without further
ado, I'm Steven Bartlett and this is the
diary of a CEO. I hope nobody's
listening, but if you are, then please
keep this to yourself.
[Music]
An
humble beginnings.
Do you think that's a accurate phrase to
describe the start of your life?
Yeah, it was humble. Um, my my father
worked in the steelworks. Um, my father
came home from work with newspapers
under his arm, all greasy from, you
know, sort of doing hard work. My mom
worked in the local department store.
Um, and we were happy.
Brothers and sisters,
no, only child. Um, my parents married
late. My father came back from the
Second World War. Um, found um, his
dream wife and they had a really, really
happy marriage. and school life and
uh I went to a local comprehensive
school.
Uh it's a very very new school.
Um I was brought up in my grandmother's
house, my parents, my grandmother in a
older house on the edge of a big big
council estate
and in the middle of this huge council
estate they built this new comprehensive
school and it was
not a very good school. It was very new.
I was one of the first children to go to
university. And to be honest, there was
a bit of a stigma from coming from that
area and that school.
And you were you were smart, right? Cuz
I I know you went on to do computer
science and I know people that do
computer science are smart asses. So you
you're definitely smart, right?
Yeah. I think um I did most of my
studying myself. The school um couldn't
do a lot to help to be honest when I had
my O levels. I think everybody was quite
shocked by how well I'd done. Um, but I
did most of my studying, by, you know,
buying my own textbooks and reading
myself. And the house wasn't a an
academic home. My father left school at
15 at 14. My mother at 15. Um, there
were no books at home except holiday
brochers. We lived to go on holiday. We
were a very, very happy family. We had a
touring caravan and we went all over
Europe. Um but it was very unusual for
um a daughter of that home to be
interested in studying.
Why?
Um why I was studying or why it was
unusual.
Why was it unusual for
Yeah. I think the um my parents didn't
push me. My parents believed were very
liberal. You know, they you know, all
the kids of the neighborhood sort of
hung out in our house. It was a very
happy home. Um, we were very very
fortunate to have just a probably a
little bit more money than everybody
living around us. Um, but there was no
emphasis on on education. Um, that was
something I did. You know, I went to the
local academic bookshop and and I
remember sort of taking a book off the
shelf. You know, what do you do at 14?
You know, what subjects do you choose?
This was all my This was me choosing
these things, not my parents.
And you were choosing those subjects
because you you enjoyed you
intrinsically enjoyed learning
or because you wanted to become super
wildly successful as a mega
entrepreneur.
I wanted a job with a briefcase. I
wanted a job in an office. I didn't
actually know anybody that worked in an
office. Um my inspiration was from
television. It was very much seeing
people on television and seeing that
people had jobs in in London in
glamorous places were doing interesting
things and I could do that and my
parents were very supportive. They gave
me as much money as I wanted to spend in
the bookshop. Um yeah and they you know
went out and bought me they bought me a
24 volume set of Excited Britannica. The
only problem was it was 1953 edition,
right? So all my knowledge was somewhat
sort of outdated, but it was a great
home and we did interesting things and I
did well in school and I went to
university
and at that point I'm guessing you
didn't have a huge from what you said a
desire to become an entrepreneur.
I never thought I'd ever be an
entrepreneur. Entrepreneurship is
something which is quite recent. you
know, coming out of school, it was very
much I wanted a job that was scientific
or um or interesting where I could I
actually wanted to be a scientist. I
actually wanted to be doing something
with chemistry and computers, whatever.
And my mom said to me, you're going to
try for one normal job, you know, um
apply for a job in a bank. And I did.
And the competition for the job was
huge. There were thousands of people
applying for a job at Lloyd's Bank to be
a computer um specialist as a graduate
computer specialist and I got the job.
So when I got the job I had to take it.
This is post university.
Yeah.
Why did you choose computer science at
university and am I right in thinking
because it's still kind of the case now
that that was a very
maledominated
subject to choose.
Yeah. Um, it was almost all men. Um, my
father thought I could possibly be a
metallologist at the steel works.
What's a metallologist for somebody?
You know, studies metals. Metals are are
made. Um, yeah. Um, but there was no
there was no concept of home of jobs for
women or jobs for men. Um, that didn't
really exist. I came from a home where
my mother was very capable and my
grandmother was very capable. So me
becoming a computer scientist and going
to um Swansea University to study where
they were all men wasn't something that
really phased me.
And you go off to the to university, you
study computer science, you do pretty
well at university, I'm guessing.
Yeah. Okay.
Yeah, you did great, I'm sure. Uh and
then you get get this job at Lloyd's
Bank in the in the graduate program. And
you're there for how long? Uh 4 and a
half years. I do four and a half years
before I quit.
Oh, really? Is that a
Yeah, I I I had a four and a half year
thing going on.
Right.
So I was four and a half years at
Lawrence Bank. Um you know, great job,
you know. So, you know, did the branch
thing, did all the jobs uh and then uh
my first boss told me, you better tone
down your aspirations otherwise you'll
get very very frustrated. Ooh. Ooh. And
that didn't work with me. I was really
really determined that I was going to
get on. So I did four and a half years
at Lloyd's Bank. I did five years at
Standard Chartered Bank.
I did three and a half years at Price
Waterhouse
uh studying banks and advising banks.
And uh I went to UBS
uh in uh in in the city and then out to
Switzerland. five years out in
Switzerland working for a big bank. Uh
joined a big insurance company, worked
all over the world, worked in Chicago a
bit. Uh and then joined a bank in
Amsterdam, Abian Amro. Um worked in all
sorts of places from Kazakhstan to
Ubekistan to all the places around the
world. I quit again. Uh spent some time
in fintech before going into all Irish
banks as chief operating officer. So
that that stint across all of those
different banks that you worked in
across all of these different
territories, how long was that in total?
Uh for 30 odd years. So I did. Yeah.
Yeah. I started in 1981
and I I quit to become an entrepreneur
um in 2014.
That's very atypical.
Oh yeah. It's it's very very unusual.
I've also done different things in the
jobs. I keep meeting people and people
go, I know an Bowden. She worked in
insurance and I go, "That's me." And
they go, "No, no, no, no. This old
there's an Bowden and she worked in in
she's a computer scientist. She did
computing things." Uh, no, no, that
that's me. Um, so I've had a long career
doing lots of different things in
different companies, but I was a
corporate person.
When I quit to become an entrepreneur,
that was something I'd never done.
And did you consciously make the
decision that I don't want to do the
corporate life stuff anymore? I want to
start my own business and give it a
shot. And when you did that, what age
were you?
54. At 54 years old, you decide that you
want to go it alone and give up all of
that corporate stuff and all the the
perks per you can say perks. All the
perks, the stability, the security of
the corporate world. And
yeah, well, I was getting up every
morning thinking somebody has to do
something about this banking industry. I
was sort of ashamed to be a banker. I
wasn't quite comfortable with it. And
the banking industry was, you know,
hadn't hadn't embraced tech. You know,
everything was changing and the banking
industry was looking backwards rather
than forwards. And I started thinking,
look, you know, I've got a bit of
independence now. I can do whatever I
want. Uh, I really like to do my own
business and perhaps I'll start a dress
shop, right? You know, I quite like
fashion, you know, perhaps I'll do a
dress shop. And
I realized I know nothing about fashion.
I know a lot about banking and what I
should do is start a bank. And but
nobody ever starts banks.
Yeah, I was going to say it's not like a
No one goes from I'll do a dress shop
maybe a bank. Bank people don't.
Yeah. I Yeah. I the only thing I knew
about was banks and how banks are run.
And you know people who start banks well
they don't start banks. People don't
start banks. And if they do start a
bank, they are probably a billionaire
and therefore, you know, I was very
different, you know. And when I started
talking to people about, you know, I am
going to start a bank, you know, I could
see people thinking I was totally crazy.
Of course,
you know, first of all, people don't
start banks, and a 5-ft tall Welsh woman
definitely doesn't start a bank.
Yes. I hate to support the stereotypes,
but I wouldn't start a bank like if if
if I was a, you know, 40-year-old
billionaire white male that was 6' 10,
let alone Yeah. a a slightly shorter
Welsh woman. So, just want to be cuz I
really, this is purely for my curiosity
here cuz I'm trying to understand how
you like, you know, cuz yeah, I don't
have the guts. So, um, you're 50 50 odd
years old. You're currently in your
corporate job.
Yeah.
And and whilst you're at the job, you
start thinking about starting the bank.
Okay. And at some point you hand in your
resignation. At what point did you hand
in the resignation? Was it while you
were still in the job and the bank had
started moving or did you leave and then
start start uh putting in the
foundations? No, I I decided very
quickly I left.
Um and within weeks
I was working on the new proposition. Um
it's only last weekend I started
unpacking the boxes. I came back from
Ireland. I was in Ireland. Um and I
decided you know you know gave my notice
in you know started the whole
proposition. um you know booked the
removal vans to bring me back over and
then you know put them in the house and
immediately went out knocking on doors.
Um it's only now I'm finding some time
to unpack those boxes.
Wow. How many years later?
Uh seven years
criy.
So you you leave you start knocking on
doors. How did you feel emotionally when
you leave the corporate system and you
hand in your resignation and you know
you're going but you don't have your
next move like solidified yet? You're
still building that thing. You know they
describe entrepreneurship as throwing
yourself off the cliff and like building
the power glider as you fall. How did
you feel emotionally at that phase?
I think you have to cope with the fact
that you no longer have that that
business card. You no longer have a
title. Um, and you know, I thought it
was going to be relatively easy to raise
money for Stalin Bank, you know, sort
of. Yes. And you know, sort of I raised
money in a in a job before. I could
knock on a faux doors and they would
give me the money I needed. It was
incredibly difficult.
I, you know, going into lots of offices
basically saying, I have this great
idea. Okay. Um, it's an awesome idea.
I'm going to build a bank like no other
bank. uh we're going to build the
technology from scratch. Um it's going
to be really fair to customers. It's
going to have an whole new way of
engaging with the people that it served.
Um and I'm going to take market share of
Barclays and HSBC and Lloyds. Um that's
all I need is some money. Uh people
would some people would tell me to my
face that I was never going to do it. um
you know the people who thought they
were being kind would say you know
you've never been an entrepreneur and
you've never run a bank as a CEO before
um and those two things are things you
can't you know raise money for um so it
is tough and yeah there was a lot and
lots of knocking on doors lots of people
telling me it was impossible
and in some cases it paused really hard
to carry on, you know, sort of sending
the emails, but I was determined
and even a glimpse of people somebody
telling me something positive was enough
to drive me on to the next meeting.
And was there
a blow at that time that felt the
hardest?
Um,
an email, a meeting? Uh
yeah, I think that there was one meeting
with an with a set of investors where I
just didn't have any of the answers. You
know, you've been there. You're an
entrepreneur. I know. Okay. They ask you
all these questions. Um and I didn't
have any of the answers. You know,
hadn't got as far as, you know, coming
up with that part of the plan.
And that felt, you know, that felt
awful. Um but you you pick yourself up
and you figure out how you're going to
find the answers. And you find the
answers by asking people for help. You
ask people for help that have that are
in the industry. You ask people that
help for help that you've worked with in
the past.
There's a stereotype that people that
build technology are from Silicon
Valley. They're like young white men um
you know that probably went to Harvard
or something like that.
Yeah.
Um you buck that trend.
Yeah. when you were walking into those
rooms and having those conversations,
were you aware that there was a certain
pre prejudice probably acting against
you?
Oh, definitely. You know, um, people
assume that I'm not technical. People
assume that I'm not, you know, capable
of coding. You know, there's code
running in banks, big banks today that I
wrote. Uh, people assume that you have
to be from Silicon Valley, you have to
be in your 20s or your 30s. um and look
and sound a certain way to build a tech
company. Um you don't look like me or
sound like me. Um but I was determined
to build a tech company and that was
very very hard for people to to
appreciate.
What was your what was the driving force
that spurred you on regardless of the
resistance that you clearly encountered
then? What was it that made you know I'm
going to keep going. I'm going to carry
on knocking.
I think that at that time I was talking
to venture capitalists and investors
about this concept of a new bank. Yeah,
it is possible to build a new bank. It
is possible to be a bank that actually
has a lower cost base, has a different
way of relating to customers. It is
possible to do this. And I kept hearing
those same statements replayed in
different ways to different roots. you
know, occasionally I go on to um a VC
sort of website from from Silicon Valley
and somebody'd say roughly the same
thing. Uh there weren't any new banks at
that stage. There wasn't anybody else
doing it. But I felt that there was um
whether it was an echo chamber, whether
that was my own ideas back to me or
other people were thinking the same way,
I felt I was on to something. M
I felt that it was possible for people
to create an um organizations
that are going to change things
and you'd never done it before. So would
you describe yourself as someone that
has a high level of self-belief at that
point?
I've managed to pull off things
throughout my career where people
thought I couldn't go to the next stage.
Um throughout my career, people have
looked at me and thought,
"Yeah, okay. She'll probably get one
promotion. She won't get any more."
Um those people will normally well,
working in my department a few years
later.
Um so I've always managed to go one step
beyond or a couple of steps beyond
people what people expected. When I
started this venture, I was surrounded
by people who knew how this new world
worked. They knew how venture capital
worked. They knew how how you behaved,
how you talked, how you pitched your
ideas. I had to learn that. And I was
as a woman and as somebody who come from
the corporate world, I was not used to
overselling my ideas. You know, one of
the things about Stling's whole journey
is that we tend to overd deliver because
deep down you tend to underplay your
ideas or underplay your success
and therefore you know stings
consistently overd delivered and
surprised people over the years.
Is that a fe typical stereotypical
autoypical feminine quality?
this idea of like because people talk a
lot about the reason why um some of the
reason why um uh women in business um
struggle to get promotions is they're
less likely to
loquate and oversell themselves and
demand promotions in the same way that
men do. So I'm wondering that like that
conservatism
and that um overd delivering but not
overpromising is something that's quite
typical of women.
Yeah. I think it's a question of it's a
very very difficult balance.
If you if you come over as arrogant, if
you come over as demanding, you're not
likable. M
um if you if you're too soft and too and
underplay what you have or what you're
doing, you're too soft, you know, sort
of you can't get it right.
Um but
I had to learn how to sell the ideas and
it took years.
It's interesting. I don't like to dwell
too much on like gender differences, but
I I I think I'm asking that question as
well because I remember a VC friend of
mine um and also a guy called I think it
was Chamath, but a guy called Chimath
who's one of the big uh investors and he
says that the female founded businesses
in his portfolio always over have when
he Kevin Olirri as well from Shark Tank,
he said the same thing. He said his
female founders um underpromise and
overd deliver consistently like and he
said when I looked at all of my
portfolio companies I think he's got 40
or 50 the femaleled businesses were
outperforming significantly because they
were under underpromising and overd
delivering. There's a big announcement
that's just come out today in fact um if
you're listening to this it would have
been about 2 weeks ago. Hu have now
released their new flavors and
thankfully I can now talk about them.
They've released a flavor which I think
might now be my best flavor. Everybody's
been asking for the the sort of the
caffeine the caffeinated version of Hu.
They've released an iced coffee caramel
flavor which is amazing. I've tried
that. They've released a salted caramel
flavor. If you know me, you know that's
my favorite flavor in the world, but
surprisingly
the flavor which I think might be my new
favorite is the cinnamon swirl. I know
it sounds strange, right? I never would
have asked for that. But the truth of
life is that sometimes the things you
didn't know you wanted are the things
you needed the most. And for me, Hule
cinnamon swirl flavor I think is my
favorite flavor now. Very random, but
try it. Delicious. Honestly, delicious
and uh nutritionally complete. Win-win
win-win.
So, hiring those first few people,
Stling Bank,
what was that process like? Um and and
really sort of laying the foundations of
that business.
Well, it was all about sort of phoning
up people I knew, explaining what I was
going to do and the idea and really
working with every organization I knew,
trying to get favors. Uh the the
traditional venture capital route wasn't
open to me. uh actually going to um VCs
and saying can I can I can I raise
50,000 100,000 300,000
it it wasn't open to to me because
I I wasn't like the other people and
those schemes
I had to really work with big
consultancy firms and tell them that I
had this idea to start a new bank and
they were going to miss out if They
didn't back me. Unfortunately, I didn't
have any money to pay them. I would pay
them once I raised the money, but would
they help me? Uh, and some of those big
firms decided to back me. And lots of
people in those firms took big personal
risk
because most people in those big
consulting firms thought that this was
just totally crazy idea. She wants to
take on Barclays. Ha,
it'll never happen. No, no, let's try
it. you know, we may learn something on
the way, you know, sort of she got all
these crazy ideas. We may be able to
take them and sell them to other
customers, you know, let let's just just
help her. And I must admit, I hung out
in their customer lounges uh for years.
Really?
Yeah.
Just chilling, just
Okay. Interesting. So, you you you you
raise money in a slightly unconventional
way considering the industry. Then you
start calling people that you want to
hire from the banking world that you've
met or
Yeah, I phone them up.
I've always been quite an unusual boss.
I've always been quite um different to
the people that I, you know, work with
and other organizations.
Uh people tend to be quite loyal to me
and I phone them up and say, um yeah, I
got a great idea. We're going to start
this bank. Uh do you fancy coming to
work with me? uh and we'll raise some
money whatever and that's how the team
got together.
So the the the who was in the core team?
Yeah. Okay. So there's there was a
couple of core teams. Okay. There was
the the first core team was the bunch
that eventually went to to found Monzo.
Tom's which you write about in the book
and Tom's been here.
Yeah.
So the that was the first cohort.
And then Tom left.
Yeah.
Uh with the team
and I started again. I started again in
exactly the same way, phoning people up
and say, "Yep, I'm still trying to start
this bank, you know, please, please come
and help me."
So Tom in particular, Tom obviously sat
here, he did the podcast, which I'm sure
you've heard, and you've written about
um Tom in the book as well. How did you
come to meet Tom?
I met Tom at a dinner,
right?
I I met Tom at a dinner in 2011 uh when
he was working with Go-Kardless.
And I I spotted him as being a very
clever, funny, charismatic individual uh
that was running a business and we kept
in touch.
So when you started stalling, you needed
was it a CTO? He came on as a CTO.
So uh yeah, I needed a CTO. Um I'd been
a bit of a mentor to Tom. Tom had gone
to the States to work for U Grouper. You
know, we kept in touch. I'd met him for
coffee once or twice and when he was
back coming I mean in the UK I phoned
him up and said or he contacted me says
he's back uh and we I hired him as CTO.
So he hires a CTO he then builds out the
technical team I'm guessing that's
typically what CTO we we you know we
started hiring developers. Yeah.
Okay. And was there because I obviously
it's well written that the there was a
bit of a fallout here.
Yeah. um take me on that journey. When
did when when did that how did the
relationship start and when was there
when was there friction?
Uh it one day Tom decides to um to go um
unfortunately
um we were about to take funding um uh
which meant that the deal was not going
to happen and basically at that
particular point um the funding and the
team fell apart. Um, you know, looking
looking back of what happened, you know,
I
you know, Tom had a really really really
tough time at Monzo.
Um, I feel for him. Um, perhaps that we
could have stayed together as a team and
I could have done what I'm good at and
perhaps Tom could have done what he was
good at.
Uh, but you know, sort of,
you know, that's history. Both Monzo and
Stling have done really really well
and having a bit of competition does
actually lead to a probably a better
industry.
The Cler founder that came on said that
about Afterpay as well. I I read that
there was a funding deal um early on but
you pulled out of the funding deal
because one of the founders was involved
in a crime.
Yeah, it was. Yeah. So you Stling Bank
was going to take funding.
Mhm.
And you pulled out of the deal because
one of the founders of the firm
Investing was involved in a serious
crime or because Staling was involved in
a serious crime. I couldn't quite
No, no. Staling was not you know this
was this was um this was a fund we're
going to take investment about from and
one of the founders of that firm. Okay.
Didn't have the reputation that we
wanted. Stalin is a very very staling
believes in something. We have a
mission.
We believe in doing the right thing and
I think it's very very important that we
you know especially in those early days
we maintain and are true to our vision
and that caused a disagreement between
yourself and
it wasn't that
it wasn't that there was a a culture
clash around a corny video I heard that
was being produced
um
I'm trying to understand what like cuz I
get I get I understand a point where
founders part ways, but typically that's
there's lots of small things that happen
leading up into that point. Little
points of friction or disagreements. And
what were those um points of
disagreement?
I think Tom and I have much more in
common than people think. Um you know,
sort of Tom and I often sit on panels
now, right? So, so it's a panel of four
and you know, and they go, "Great idea.
I've left Stling and Monzo on the panel
and we'll have two traditional banks in
the middle, you know, Barclays and
Lloyds, whatever. And um and there's
lots of questions and somebody asks the
question and
there's going to be two answers. There's
going to be one set of answers from Tom
and myself. We tend to have the same
view on things and then a different
answer from the from the incumbent
banks. And sometimes I can see, you
know, I look across the panel, catch
sort of Tom's eye, and he and you know,
I answer or he answers. There's lots
more we have in common. And it's a
really it's a real pity it, you know, it
ended the way it did. You know, you
know, there lots of places in the book
where I talk about um, you know, sort
of, you know, Tom's intellect and and
Tom's energy. Um, it's a real pity it
ended the way it did.
There came a day where you you turned to
to Tom and you knew there was something
wrong and you you say to him, you know,
Tom, is there is there you don't seem
happy about something here. And um and
he he responds that he's sick of your
knee-jerk behavior.
How did how did that feel? What was what
was he referring to when he says sick of
your knee-jerk behavior?
I think that um you know businesses are
very very stressful. I think Tom you
know is is an individual that sometimes
has tough times and you know sort of
every single conversation between
founders um on the wrong day about the
wrong thing could possibly lead to that
sort of breakup. But um wow, what a
story. Eh,
how would you describe the differences
in your personalities? Cuz it seems like
that's probably at the heart of the
clash.
I don't think different personalities
lead the clashes.
Interesting.
I think that
people who have different personalities
working together can create great
businesses. Yeah.
Um,
I think Tom, you know, went on, you
know, to to, you know, sort of lead a
great group at Monzo and, you know, and
I've listened to his the show, um, where
he talked to you and he had a tough
time.
When you heard that, how did you feel
about the way that the events were
recounted?
Be honest with me. want to know that.
Yeah, it's a very very difficult very
difficult question to answer. Um,
I chose Tom as a CTO. Um, I still
believe he is an extremely talented
individual
and he has, you know, grown a great
business. Of course, Stling is a better
business. Um uh but isn't it great that
what happened you know the story of you
know it's a yeah you know two
individuals
come across each other um they meet you
know sort of one decides to start a bank
hires the other person um there's a
falling out both businesses going on to
really change things um well it's it's
it's the story of digital banking in the
UK Hey, I keep wondering if, you know,
if that story never happened, uh, would
we've all got so much, you know, sort of
inches in the press to be honest. It was
quite a story. But
how did you feel when you heard the way
that he recounted the events? You you're
listening to it. It's coming through
your ears and you're thinking,
it's the first time I'd heard it, but I
knew that that story was being retold in
places where I couldn't hear it. Um, but
I'm quite philosophical about this. We
all see the world and a story in
different ways. And yeah, you know, it's
a
it's it's another piece in the story of
the Stling Monzo journey. And at this
time when you and Tom are having a
fallout um within stling and you you've
realized I guess that you know you have
different ideas and perspectives about
how things should be done and where they
should be going. You hold a crisis
meeting, you come together um I guess
you have those meetings I guess because
you're trying to discuss a way a way
through a way to a positive outcome. I
think at some point you realize that
there's not going to be a positive
outcome and one of you is going to have
to leave and then you offer up your
resignation.
Yeah. Yeah. So, you offered to to quit
Staling Bank.
Mhm.
Yeah. I you know, and that's you've
talked about, you know, how women act
differently to men. I was prepared to
give up stalling. I was prepared to give
up my part in stalling for the good of
Stalling.
And that was a very stupid thing to do.
Why?
Because it was my business. It was my
idea. Um, I'd got the business to where
it was, but I was volunteering to give
up my role in Stalin because
I wanted Stalin to succeed. Tom, I think
didn't think I was capable.
Somebody that like me that has spent so
many years in corporate life that I
wasn't capable of delivering and
building a big tech company
and I built a big tech company. Um,
yeah. So he didn't have that faith in
me, but I realized that I could do it
and made it happen.
Specifically in those days, you you
decide that you're going to step away
for the greater good of the business.
Admirable thing to do, some would say.
Um it appears that it's one of the
decisions you regret in hindsight
getting to that place. So just gauging
by your reaction then it seems like it's
something where you look back and think
why did I
yeah I should never have volunteered to
resign. I should never have volunteered
to go.
Um that was me saying um that the
survival of stling was was more
important than me.
And both things are important my part in
stling and the survival of stling. And
what was it that changed your mind?
Well, I think as I write in the book,
I'd sort of retreated. I went to a
coffee shop, went to Starbucks and um
met a guy that I'd seen in Starbucks
every Sunday for the, you know, for the
previous 10 years. And, you know, he's a
tech entrepreneur. And he came to me and
he sat opposite me and he said, you
know, chatted about things.
And I said that I'd stepped away from
Stalling because that was the only way
the business would succeed.
And he said to me, "What are you going
to do next?" And I said, "I'm probably
going to start another bank." And he
said, "Well,
you don't have to start another bank.
You can go back in and and take Stalin
back."
And I realized that I'd made a mistake
that I needed, you know, it I
desperately wanted to create Stalling. I
desperately wanted to lead Stalin and I
had to take Stalin back and I lit
literally ran out of the coffee shop and
I I can I can see I can see I can see
the street in front of me now and I got
into the car, drove into London
um
and took Stalin back.
And what did that mean taking it back?
Uh it meant that I had to be you know
totally well I had to talk to people and
say that
I had a vision of creating something
which is
an organization that does things in a
right sort of way. You know, I'd been a
banker for 30 odd years and I was
ashamed to be a banker. And this idea of
Staling was to do things my way and I
really wanted to lead the organization
to where it is at the moment.
So I had to make that clear and I took
back stalling. But the consequence was
that I was on my own. I was on my own in
the office.
So, you walk back in the office and say
to the team, I say to Tom that you're
withdrawing your resignation.
No. Um, by then they'd refuse to accept
my resignation.
Uh, because, um,
it's a long story. I don't want to go
into all the details, but they refused
to accept it because, you know, of
certain things. Um, so I stepped in and
took control of Stalling.
And so, um, I heard around this time
you'd also been burgled at home and this
kind of exacerbated, I think, some of
the emotional components of decision-m.
Yeah.
Is that accurate?
Yeah. So, you know, this, you know, this
happened around the time of of some
burglaries and, you know, and why, you
know, why that's in the book is that we,
you know, we're CEOs, we're leaders of
businesses, we're entrepreneurs, but
we're also human.
And a burglary is quite personal.
And how did how did that impact you and
your decision-m around that time that
back then?
Um
I think it was tough around that time
but
all issues and all things you do um in a
business
um are complex and that was an added
complication at that time. just adds
more to the the mind and more things to
think about and
um makes you feel a little bit unstable
I guess burglar in your home I think has
that kind of psychological
destabilization um while you were away
you'd handed in your notice at stling
and you'd left the office while you were
away
I guess Tom's running the office per se
is that accurate and um you know the way
that it's framed in press is that
there's some kind of like coup that's
gone on where you control of the
company's been seized from you in like a
kind of low-key hostile man manner. Is
that at all accurate?
I think you have to read the book.
Yeah.
You know, there's a um you know, I
the book is the story of what happened.
Um there were lots of notes and emails
taken at the time and this was all
written from my notes
uh and emails written at the time. And I
think it's up to the readers to decide,
you know, what really went on.
And you um you go in and you say, you
know, I'm not going to I'm not going to
resign. Um I want to lead this company.
I've got a vision for the company in
this future. And that means that you
have to fire Tom. Essentially, that's
the decision you make. You say, "I'm the
CEO still of Sterling Bank, so I'm going
to I'm going to let let you go and I'm
going to rebuild my own team." And the
way that, you know, when Tom sat here
and spoke to me, he he says that you
fired the whole team.
Is that accurate?
Okay. Um the the story is that um we
lost the funding. Um, you can't
if you can't pay people, it's very
unfair to let them work. Um, we were
very very honest with the people that
unless we could raise funding, there
weren't going to be any jobs. And I
think it's documented extremely well in
the book about all the ins and outs. And
it's quite a story.
And so you lose funding because Tom's
quitting. And obviously when people
invest in companies, they're investing
in teams and peoples and CTO is a
critical role,
the person that's building the
technology. So that's why the funding
goes through. And you realize at this
point, I've got to basically build this
thing back from scratch. Um I'm guessing
you had an inclination that there was a
greater allegiance towards Tom with the
with the existing cohort of people.
No, not really.
No.
Okay. It was more just you basically
weren't going to be able to pay for them
because
the funding had been pulled.
Um
Yeah. Yeah. So that day so you you know
Tom leaves um the the team are are are
let go as well and they go with Tom and
you know that starts the story of Monzo
and as he's described it they start
their own bank and
that's what we now call as Monzo
that day after you walk into the office.
So I'm guessing I don't know whether
it's a physical office or a metaphorical
one but you walk in you're alone pretty
much. Is there anyone else in the room?
Is there anyone else in stalling as an
employee at this point? that this me
just you
and how did that feel going from you
know the climb climb we're building
something here to ground zero
I'm very good at picking myself up you
know sort of uh at that particular point
um I was feeling well I haven't got the
responsibility now of of having to raise
money to pay these people um I can take
my time now to find a new investor or I
can build a new team and it Didn't take
long before I was
well is a gentleman called Alan
Chandler,
friend of yours.
Yeah. Who turned up two days later and
at your office
and stayed and stayed working for no
salary at all for nearly a year.
What was um what had you built at that
point in terms of on the day when Tom
and the the new Monzo crowd had left?
What had you actually achieved as a
company? What what was there technology?
Who was there?
No, nothing from the technology side had
been really done. Um, we had a banking
application. So, when you when you um
apply for a bank, you have to have a
banking application. Yeah.
And it was in boxes. So, you know, so we
had a banking application. We didn't
really have much tech.
Okay. So, your friend comes in, he
offers to do the P45s for the staff that
have just left and just to sort of give
you a hand.
Um, and then you start hiring again. A
lot of people would quit at that point
and a lot of people would give up.
That's a pretty significant blow as far
as I'm concerned. How many people had
left in total?
16.
16 people. That's a pretty significant
blow to, you know, might be time to go
back to the corporate world. No. Did
that not cross your mind?
Uh, not really. Um, I I'd got to a state
of having almost having a banking
license. Um, I had the idea. I'd learned
a lot. I knew
what we needed to do.
It didn't take me long and I was
starting again.
You say that like it's so easy, like
it's just so effortless and I know it's
not.
It was humiliating. Okay. It was
humiliating reading in the press what
had happened because the stories been
told in the press and the stories being
told now and not actually what happened.
Um, but you know that's history. you got
to get on and you got to sort things out
and you got to move on and I was Yeah, I
was up for it. I was going to do it
again.
You seem reluctant to uh correct false
stories here.
That's clearly a decision you've made.
Yeah, I think that what I don't want to
get into is he said that, you know, she
said this, you know, I I've written a
book which is um you know, which is a
very accurate account of what happened
and my side of the story and people are
allowed to have
different sides of the same story.
That's okay. Um but I wanted to tell my
story. M
your friend that stopped by the office.
Yeah.
Um and gave you a hand. How emotionally
important was that?
And how grateful are you to them?
I will be forever ever grateful to Alan.
Uh, I think that the one person to come
in and
and be somebody who said, "Yep, this
happened, but you know, yep, you're
going to start again. That's fine." And
I think one of the symbolic things that
happened was that in the early weeks,
you know, when when they left, you know,
Tom and the team had left all their
debris behind, you know, sort of, and
they had a hell of a lot of debris. Um,
uh, I went out one day to do some
fundraising
and when I came back, Allan had
collected all the all the mugs and the
odd socks and, you know, the and, you
know, all the various medications they
were all taking and and it cleared it
all up and thrown it all away and the
office was clear of the old world and we
could start again. And that was quite
symbolic.
And yeah, it was I sometimes think if
Allan had not come in, you know, would
it have been so easy? And I'll never
know. But that was the start of a new
team. And you know that team, you know,
the
the A team
and the team that left were the B team.
Um,
there she is.
was, you know, we we attracted people
that were
sort out stling. You know, this this
woman is going to build a bank and she's
going to do all these things and they
turned up and
they were awesome.
Okay, so the team have left. Alan's
cleaned out the office. Is there is
there not a moment in you where you you
consider
packing it in? Is there not a moment
where you think, do you know what? This
is
April the 1st.
That's when, you know, that's when I
accidentally had an email from the team
that left. Um,
and
that
that was difficult.
You accidentally had an email.
Yeah.
You weren't meant to be copied on it.
Uh, I don't know. I never know whether I
was I was meant to be copied on it or
not. Um, but they were making fun of me
and I thought, well,
is that the day I'm going to give up?
But I said, nope. You know, and I went
back in the office the following day and
carried on.
Making fun of you in terms of your
management skills, your something you'
done or said or very personal things.
No, it's a question of, you know, you
have to read the book about it, but it
was a prank about them being arrested.
Um, but you have to read the story to
understand this the the the nuance. But
that was the only day that I thought,
you know, can I carry on? And that
lasted an hour,
but I was absolutely determined.
Were you upset reading that email?
I was panicking about them. I was
worried about them.
Why? Um, I was worried about the fact
that they could be in real trouble. And
yeah, I I hired these people. They were
friends for years. Uh, they
and I like them.
You can't suddenly um
you can't suddenly cut off all
connection with people that you worked
with even though this thing had happened
to me. Did it put a fire in your belly
that wasn't there before? Because, you
know, events like that can they can kind
of send you one or two ways. Oh, and
they can kind of send you I guess they
can also send you both ways at the same
time, but they typically if we're just
kind of broadstrokes, they can they can
devastate you to the point where you you
know don't get out of bed or they can
motivate you to the point that you work
two times as hard.
Nothing was going to stop succeeding
after that happened.
So it's still I still work twice as
hard.
Yeah.
And did you did you really did you were
there moments like where you you know
you what you just put that extra effort
in and you you know you became a little
bit more determined because of that like
moments you can think of cuz I know I'm
a human being and I don't care. If I was
in that situation I swear to God I'd
have a picture of their face on the
wall. My team would be hearing about it
every 5 seconds. That's the guy I am.
Like it or not, I don't care. I do that
about all the the competition we have. I
It motivates me and it is what it is.
You don't have to like me. So, I'm I'm
asking the question like did it did they
become a a real significant competitive
driving force in your life.
Okay. As a woman, you can't be bitter.
Okay. You can't show that bitterness. Um
why
you can't you you have to be you know
you you have to internally put your
energies into
um into stling um you know stalling
stalling has succeeded stling is a
successful business um that I'm terribly
proud of and yes when I I take a lot of
inspiration from other people's books
and whatever most
most businesses have had a uh near-death
moment.
It it's it happens so often that the
best businesses, the best entrepreneurs
have had times when they lost it. They
almost lost it, but they recovered. This
was mine and uh it played out very
publicly
and um I learned a lot from it and I
decided to continue and I think Stling
and me are better for it.
when you started to rehire the new team.
Yeah.
I'm guessing you made different hiring
decisions in terms of because of what
had happened, did it influence the type
of people that you brought into the
business for the chapter 2?
Not necessarily.
I think that
yeah, I I didn't set out to get um a
different set of personalities.
I could focus on getting more qualified
people and higher caliber people because
I had a better business proposition.
It was a year in 18 months in, you know,
it wasn't a blank sheet of paper. It was
a fully formed proposition that had
almost raised money
where we had an application for the
banking license that was almost fully
formed. So it was less risk for those
people coming in. Uh and I also had
spent 18 months figuring this thing out.
I was better at selling the idea.
So the second time around I could bring
in a you know I don't want this to be
derogatory on you know Tom or whatever.
I hired a a a higher caliber more
appropriate set of people for the
problem we had to solve.
Okay.
Yeah.
I think that's I think that's a natural
thing. I think I think even in you know
Monzo's business I'm pretty sure when I
had the conversation with Tom he he
speaks about hiring and you know hiring
a different caliber of person to meet an
evolving business challenge especially I
know I know particular Monzo's case they
did start bringing in people from like
the banking world and stuff like that
and even in my business I talk a lot
about how we did the exact same thing I
at the very start didn't quite know the
caliber of talent that I needed or the
you know their experience and in year
three of my business, I realized that
the first two one or two years of uh
hires that I'd made weren't adequately
uh experienced in solving the problem I
had to solve. And also the type and
scale of problem you have to solve
evolves, right? When you're one, two
years old, it's a different set of
problems to when you're like a thousand
employees, right? So
that makes perfect sense. Pivotal
moments then. So chapter two of Staling,
um funding.
Yep.
What was the pivotal moment with getting
getting the money in the door? It was
very very difficult
again.
Uh yeah, it was very um but two years in
uh I was approached by um a family
office
and I wouldn't return the calls. Okay.
You know, I was absolutely determined
that I was going to have a VC, these
people I knew is going to be these
well-known firms um or you know, my
investment bankers are going to find me
this sort of investor. Uh but I was
approached by uh a uh family office um
that had seen uh an article about Tom in
Bloomberg and had investigated what's
going on in the new bank scene in the UK
and wanted to talk to me and I started
conversations with them and it took a
while for me to actually engage with
them. I'd never heard of them and I
wasn't going to talk to people I didn't
know. Anyway, I ended up going on a
getting on a plane to the Bahamas.
Oh, that's when you know they're rich.
It was a yacht, wasn't it?
It was a yacht. And uh spent three days
being interrogated by a a gentleman
called Harold Mcpike uh who was an alg
algorithmic trader. Um, and uh, he
he asked me the most complex questions
that anybody had ever asked. He was
really into the detail. And yes, uh, at
Harpers 4, um, I joined him on his
yacht.
And
how big was this yacht?
It's a big yacht.
More of a ship.
It was a big yacht.
Okay. Uh and uh yeah, he asked me lots
and lots of questions about me, about
the business,
and it was very very detailed.
And at 11:15
in the evening, he offered me 48 million
pounds for 66% of the company.
66%. M
I read that he said he he said something
to you like uh I'm not going to give you
the three million.
Yeah.
I was trying to raise three million.
Okay. I was trying to raise 3 million.
That's all I needed was 3 million to get
to getting the the banking license. So
the idea was to raise 3 million and then
15 million then 30 million. I only
wanted the 3 million. I hadn't raised a
penny. The only money that gone into the
business was my money.
So it was impossible to raise money. Uh,
and he said, "Yeah." So he said, "No,
I'm not going to give you 3 million. I'm
going to give you 48."
Christ, that's like Chris Taran from He
wants to be a millionaire. That's mad.
40. And how did you feel? So there's two
real things here. That's a huge amount
of money, but that's also 66% of your
business.
Tough.
And at that particular point, you know
that all the other things that you're
working on, all the other leads are
going to
going to go.
Yeah.
You may have 40 50 different leads
you're working on.
You're going to accept this offer and
sort of somebody else now controls the
company, but with 48 million, you have a
situation where you can build the tech
best tech in the world. So, no, I've
been doing this for two years, and it
was really difficult,
and I had somebody who really understood
what I was going to do,
was super intelligent,
that actually
believed in my conviction I could do
this,
but I was have to give up 66%.
But it would mean that I could build
something that nobody else had ever
built.
I mean, in that moment, he's valuing
what is, and correct me if I'm wrong
here, essentially an idea.
Yeah, it was a 16page deck.
He's valuing a 16page deck at
72 million.
How long did you have to think about
that decision?
Probably about 30 seconds.
Really?
And how do you feel about it? Cuz a lot
of people they look back on those
fundraising decisions. It seems that
every startup entrepreneur regrets how
they value their bit business at the
start because they always, especially
when it becomes a multi-billion dollar
company, they feel like they sold
themselves short. How do you feel about
it?
He's not listening.
It's too busy in the Bahamas on this
massive yacht.
I think that it is more and more
important to actually create this
vision.
I was so excited that I could now start
and we eventually signed the deal on the
21st of December and submitted the
banking license on the 22nd of December.
It was finally, you know, we could we
could start.
It was hugely exciting.
Did you celebrate?
Well, I couldn't actually celebrate
because we didn't actually have a term
sheet for another 3 days. So, you know,
it was on the Saturday night. I was
flying back and I had the term sheet an
hour before picking up the flight. But
once you'd signed the term sheet and it
was all signed off, did you
No, you never you never celebrate term
sheets.
Uh you celebrate getting the money in
the bank.
When the money came in the bank, did you
celebrate?
Yeah.
And how did that how did that look?
Uh how did it look?
You look you open up your app, Barclays,
whatever. Oh, 48 million. Yeah.
It's It was very It was very exciting.
It was very exciting. And it it allows
you to do so much. Was it terrifying as
well? Was it scary? It's a lot of
responsibilities. 48 million pounds of
someone else's money.
Yeah. And that's why entrepreneurs that
take external funding
are so committed to do a good job.
There's a huge amount of responsibility
to deliver.
You can't just um you can't walk away
from it
once you got that investment. You have
to deliver. It's so important. And how
much money have you raised in total now
for Starling?
million pounds. Wow.
I could have done so much with that. So
what have you learned about raising
investment? Well that if you were to you
know there'll be a lot of entrepreneurs
listening to this um who have a lot of
like unhelpful
stereotypes or thoughts about raising
investment. God some of them will think
the only way to do it is like Dragon's
Den, right? Um what would what would you
tell them now having gone through this
process so many times?
Take the money. Okay. So there's a huge
amount of writ huge amount written about
you know you need to go for these sort
of investors or those sort of investors
and you need to pick your investor
whatever the vast majority of people
can't pick where the investment's coming
from. You know, only 1% of vent venture
capital funding goes to women founders,
right? So, you know, if somebody offers
you the money,
you got to take it because it comes
around so so rarely. And a lot of people
worry about valuation.
Not relevant. You know, most businesses
fail. Most entrepreneurs don't get their
businesses off the ground. Not because
they don't have good ideas, not because
they not good people, but they couldn't
get the funding.
And do you think it's hard to raise
money?
Yeah, very hard.
Venture capitalists tend to invest in
um
businesses that look very very similar.
You know, if you look at if you if you
read Paul Graham's works.
Oh, yeah. Yeah.
You know, he talks about really
that teams need to look like this and
and things are done in this sort of way.
You know, I would have never got any Y
Combinator VC Paul Graham funding
because I'm not that sort of
entrepreneur.
and a lot of investing by VCs.
They're looking for carbon copies of
businesses they've invested in in the
past
and the really great ideas don't get
that investment and real great ideas
from women founders don't get great in
don't get significant investment.
Interesting. But there's a lot of money
out there, isn't there? Yeah,
that's what I I've come to learn is
there is a lot of money out there.
There's a lot of money out there when
you're successful,
right?
Stalling now is is a big business, 1,600
people, 2 and a half million accounts,
um doing interesting things. Um we have
a reputation.
Um but the fact that you know and
occasionally
you know they publish how much money in
the UK has gone to women founders
and it's a lot of it's gone to me.
Um, so, so I I think we have to be very
realistic that you get to a point where
you're a success and people then want to
invest, but the majority of the time at
Staling, it's been really tough.
It's been really tough. So what when you
reflect on your corporate career and you
contrast it and compare it to your
entrepreneurial career, what was the
really surprising tough part on a
personal level?
And this is really why I started this
podcast. You know,
the
all jobs are tough. A corporate job is
very tough.
I think that
being an entrepreneur, it's far more
personal responsibility. As an
entrepreneur, there's nobody that all
the hiring decisions um somehow ended up
with you making that first hiring
decision. You know, we have 1,600
people, but those, you know, somewhere
up in the chain, I hired one of those
people, right, that made that hiring
choice. Um anything that goes wrong is
is my responsibility.
um and all mistakes are probably down to
me. Okay. So, there's a lot of personal
responsibility
and that responsibility
gets more and more as more and more
people depend on it. But isn't it
fantastic?
Isn't it a wonderful buzz? Isn't it
Isn't it wonderful to
to have a platform really?
I I fundamentally believe that financial
institutions lost their way and Stalin
is doing the right thing and somehow
people have said to me that I've created
the organization that I wanted to run
because I quite like running
organizations
and I wanted to do things in a different
sort of way. So finally I'm running the
organization that I've been wanting to
run for the last 35 years
and that you wished exist as existed as
a customer.
Yeah, I think that you know I've been
very lucky. I I've always had a great
relationship with money. I but the vast
majority of people in this world
have a bad relationship with money.
It doesn't go well for them and you know
they deserve a better bank. I went into
banking, you know, because I wanted to
do interesting things. I wanted to come
to London and I wanted to be in tech,
but I also wanted to do something that
was respectable, worthwhile, doing the
right thing by people.
And banks stopped doing that.
And I'm much more comfortable
being accountable for the organization
that is stalling.
And it helped you to, I guess, alleviate
that taxi cab shame you, yeah,
reference where a taxi driver asks you
what you do and you don't want to say
banker because
there's so much stigma and shame around
the sector.
You're proud to talk about
Yeah, I'm proud to talk what I do. I'm
proud to talk about Yeah, I'm proud to
talk about what I do and what I stand
for and having a bit of a platform to
nudge things in the right way. You know,
I
I'm only a small cog in this whole
world, but if I can do my bit to make
things fairer in a couple of segments,
you know, I should do that and I'm
enjoying doing it. You talked about the
buck stopping with you.
All problems are your problems. All
hiring decisions are ultimately lead
back to you by X degrees of separation
when you're and especially you know the
other part is the industry you're in is
not an easy an easy industry. Customers
you have millions of like customers that
are you're dealing with their money
which is the one of the most emotional
sensitive things you can deal with with
any customer. Um the the emotional toll
must be extreme. I mean Tom sat here and
it was the first window I'd had into how
brutal uh emotionally brutal fintech and
managing a bank can be.
Yeah. Managing a bank, you know. So
yeah, I listened to what Tom said and
all the things that Tom said happen in
all banks, right? That is what happens.
But it's my job.
It's what I do.
Um,
it's what the people I work with do.
And sometimes it's,
you know, sometimes you read emails of
people that have been scammed out of
their life savings.
You have emails and you have cases
where, you know, gamblers have lost all
their money. You have to deal with
people who have lost their son in some
tragic circumstances.
We have a window on people's lives in
all sorts of circumstances.
And we have to be responsible. We have
to be empathetic and we have to guard
ourselves from the bad guys out there.
What we do means that we touch people in
all sorts of ways when they're most
vulnerable.
whether they've lost somebody, whether
they have, you know, they gambled all
their money away or whether they've been
scammed,
that's a responsibility.
But it's not just me that has to take
that responsibility. We have we have
hundreds of people that talk to
customers every day that see customers
when things are going well and things
are going badly. Um it takes a huge
amount of energy and sometimes they're
listening who calls and it really
impresses me how young people you know
who are new to their careers who
are so empathetic
are so in touch with real people and
really helping them you know I take my
hat off to them. What do you do to
protect yourself mentally from the chaos
of running such a big business that has
such a you know is dealing with such a
sensitive topic for people. What do you
how do you protect yourself from not
losing your sanity?
Yeah, I
had a great mentor in this. My father my
father um was brought up in a home where
um his father was in the first world war
and he came back from the first world
war with um what you now call
post-traumatic stress syndrome and they
didn't call it that then they called it
you know shell shock and he he was
brought up in that home where his father
was had good days and bad days and
things were quite fragile
but he had my father had a great way of
talking about your feelings and emotions
and what you do to talk yourself up
and and how you make yourself happy.
And we had a home where we talked about
this and how you counted your blessings.
We weren't religious at all, but how you
how you
how you took energy from what's going
right rather than what's going wrong.
And he was a great mentor. He taught me
this. And I think the dedication in my
book is all about, you know, thanking my
parents for teaching me that happiness
is something that you can cultivate and
treasure because not everybody has it.
And
I think when I am in a sort of situation
where things are tough, you can do
things to change the chatter in your
head
to realize that you're not the center of
attention. You know, sometimes, you
know, it's not about me, you know, not
not everybody's looking at me.
Everybody's looking at their own life
and thinking about their own problems.
And
I am very very fortunate.
I have a huge number of things that are
going right for me and I have the
privilege of running stling and it is a
privilege and there's lots of things
going wrong and lots of pressures on me
but it's a great privilege to have.
So do you see that as a your your sort
of coping mechanism there as a almost
like a almost like a childhood
disposition that was taught to you like
it's a a perspective that kind of
defaults to optimism seeing the glasses
half full defaulting to gratitude that's
kind of acted as a protective
yeah I think it is I'm still quite
excited by it all right sort of coming
here today I was excited this is this is
something which is look I am ever so
fortunate to be a person who's doing
what I'm doing to talking to you.
There's going to be broadcast. This is
exciting.
Um, when I come back into London, you
know, I'm driving back into London late
at night and, you know, and I'm going
through the city. I'm I'm still excited.
I'm like a kid that's coming to London
for the first time. This is an exciting
things to do. I'm
Yeah, I'm loving it all.
Such a strange question to ask, but um
that is somewhat unusual. It feels it
feels like Well, is it? Maybe it's just
because
the the conversation I had previously
was so, you know, like the red phone by
the bed Tom described, you know.
Yeah. I have a phone by the bed and it
never leaves the the Yeah. The phone is
by the bed all the time
and that's the like the emergency call
me if there's a crisis phone. Yeah,
but that's the job I get paid for.
There's a huge thing. There's a there's
a huge amount of things that come with
this job, you know. I, you know, I
appear in front of the Treasury Select
Committee and get grilled. I, you know,
I have this sort of grilling from you. I
I I I
can talk to interesting people. I have
the opportunity of building something
I've always wanted. That's a huge huge
privilege.
I really think that's a really
underestimated defense mechanism against
life is if your default position is to
view the you know to count your
blessings as you say and view the half
as glass full then it's it's harder to
slip into the trap of um my expectations
are being unmet because of the
difficulties of my life. And a lot of
what we've discovered from this talking
to guests on this podcast are when your
expectations of how the world is meant
to be going go unmet, then you slip away
into unhappiness and misery and yeah,
you seem to have a a default to
gratitude essentially, which is
causing a very mentally sort of
protective. Have you ever been to
therapy? Have you ever had like any
professional support in that regard?
No.
I read a lot. I read um I read
I read hundreds of books. I read, you
know, I read every self-help book I get
my hands on. I read every single banking
strategy book.
I've always done it. I I love
understanding things.
The the personal
So this is interesting. One of the
things that um you said well kind of two
points is that you don't have work life
balance.
Yeah.
It's all it's just all work.
When people hear that they go oh they
sympathy like you know they think they
think you're like I feel a similar way
to to some degree. Maybe it's changed
recently but I that was my life and I
don't want sympathy for it because I
actually love what I'm doing every day.
But then, you know, I read into your
story and there's sort of connected
points there where you say um about how
women are sort of conditioned in our
society to think happiness equals having
17 kids and a husband
and how you would like to do you know
buck that narrative.
Yeah.
Can you talk to me about that? So like
the personal I don't want to call it
sacrifice because that's the loss of
something but the personal balance you
have in your life and also you know you
talk openly about not having kids.
Yeah.
Um
look you know sort of um
you know the right man never came along.
Mhm.
Uh it wasn't something that I decided
against.
Uh but there was never any assumption in
the family home that I would get married
or whatever. But the right man never
came along. And as far as children, I
never made the decision not to have
children. Uh just that um
sort of I was busy and then it was too
late. M
but I think that people compare
um to quite an idilic state of you know
marriage and two children and them all
living in a wonderful home and you know
sort of everything being um fantasized
life of a family. Um the majority of
families are not like that. Um I have
I am really really happy that I've made
the right decisions
and yes it's a I get asked about it
occasionally and brave people ask about
it you know people who are not brave
trying to go around it
um
yeah you know but one day per will marry
you never know you know the right man
may come along
um it's unlikely to happen with
children.
I always struggled in when I was running
my business to have any kind of
relationship with anybody. I was a total
failure cuz I was obsessed as you say
like work life balance. It was just all
work. I was in the office sat in Sunday
and I found it incredibly hard to find
someone that understood
the peculiarity of my life dynamic. It
was only upon leaving that business that
I actually managed to like you know like
piggle something together like higgle
the you know like put some pieces
together which is probably resembles a
relationship now but um
it's very difficult finding a man who's
prepared to listen to me going on about
my career for three hours.
We've had it's not No, we've had a lot
of guests come here that are you know
female founders that have said a very
similar thing. Yeah. And also an
interesting narrative which I I want to
talk about which is like men can be
emasculated. Is this true? You Chrissy
came here and she's a she's a successful
fan and she said that yeah like men can
be emasculated by the success of a a
woman if she's like bringing home the
bacon or if she's, you know, the
careerdriven one. Do you find this to be
true? Well, I you know I had a lot of
coaching from friends before going out
on a date and going for goodness sake
and don't ask for the bill. Okay. For
goodness sake and don't you know don't
leave the table to answer a call. Right.
So
goodness.
Yeah. But I got a really really good
deal coming up. No, no, no, no. This is
how it works, an okay, you go on a date
and you pretend he's he's awesome and
you don't go off and answer your phone
and you don't try and pay the bill.
Okay, that's how it works. that how it
works for most people. But you know,
sometimes work is more important.
Wow.
Oh god. And you I I read some as well
that you said that you could write a
separate book about your dating.
Yeah. Yeah.
Dating uh experiences.
Yeah. I've done a lot of that. Yeah.
Do a lot of dating. Um
it doesn't work.
Doesn't work.
Doesn't work. and you you you pinpoint
the way that you are in terms of your
like your focuses, your ambitions, your
p, you know, all of that stuff as making
it difficult. That's the thing that
makes it difficult.
Look, if I put a lot of effort into it,
I would have probably made something
work. Um the trouble is I put a lot of
effort into my job and my career
and I probably get a huge amount of
satisfaction about with that and it's
sort of taken priority
but that's great you know you know I've
I got a great job um you know I'm doing
this sort of stuff
you know you know what could be better
you know sort of being in the situation
where
you can talk about things and you and
you have success. Yeah, it's it's good.
As you reflect back on, you know, the
the Ann that started her career as an
entrepreneur and
the naivity that she must have
undoubtedly had going, you know, what
would you what was this is the some of
the key sort of pieces of advice you
would impart on her and say, I just wish
you knew this and be careful of this.
And
I I I think it's the the question that
people
always give you the wrong sort of
advice.
What I what I caution about is that
there's a lot of people out there giving
bad advice.
Uh because when you ask somebody about
what you should do or how you raise
fundraising or you know whatever you do
about your business, they haven't got a
good idea. So they give you something
because they feel as they can't say I
don't know. So be cautious of those
mentors that actually don't know
anything.
And there's so many people who have you
know the the the VC world is full of
people who are you know
you know finished their careers that are
wandering around VC land trying to tell
you what things work and how things
work.
They've never run a business. A lot of
that is absolute rubbish and you have to
just stop it. Um, one of the biggest
lessons I learned is a lot of the things
that I knew, what I was absolutely 100%
certain of was actually wrong, right?
So, forget about it. The world's move on
be relevant.
And do you want to sell Starling Bank?
What's the plan? Do you want to, you
know, you want to list it on the stock
exchange? Do you want a a big incumbent
bank to come along and buy the company
so you can sail off to the Bahamas with
that guy on on the boat or
No, I think that will probably list in a
couple of years time. Um, you know, I
wanted to be
I want to be important. I want Staling
to be something that changes financial
services forever. I've enjoyed myself.
You know, I'm
I'm not ready to quit. This is
I'm on a roll.
And you must have had some offers,
right? Cuz you know a couple of people
coming along saying brown envelope 100
mil,
see you later. No,
it's
look it's a unique opportunity you know
imagine put yourself in my shoes.
1981 I came to London to start my career
in banking. and rocked up at Lloyd's
Bank as a graduate trainee.
Nowadays, you know, I'm I'm running an
important bank in the UK
and I founded this bank and it's much
better than the encumbered banks and
it's at the start of its sort of 300
years rather than at the end of it.
Yeah, it's incredibly exciting. Um,
yeah, I have to pinch myself.
It's really happening.
Yeah, you know, it's it's it's truly
remarkable and you're right, I did give
you a grilling there a bit on on a lot
of the the key points because there is,
you know, there is such a interesting
banking narrative, banking war narrative
going on in the fintech space at the
moment and but you know, the overarching
thing is just, you know, I find your
story to be just so incredible and I
find it to be like genuinely
unbelievable because
you say it in such an effortless way.
you say you talk about these events and
even the fundraising stuff and you know
the stereotypes of being a female
founder um that doesn't fit the existing
stereotypes of tech bros out in Silicon
Valley that are all like 21 from Harvard
and they're all dropouts and to
persevere against it all I suspect is
significantly maybe 10x harder than you
actually make out because like I know
how hard it is anyway but then when the
the deck is stacked against you and the
ways that I know it it is because I I
understand stereotypes and the climate
and especially in the banking world like
what kind of lunatic starts a bank,
right? And I I was I was fortunate
enough to be slightly privy to some of
the early processes of like getting a B
banking application because we had a lot
of fintech startups including banks like
Monza approach us very early and ask us
to help with the marketing. M
so and and when I was sitting in the
rooms maybe five six years ago they're
all talking about eventually getting
their banking licenses or something
and uh that corner was turned eventually
but it's just remarkable and it's
unbelievable and there's very few
entrepreneurs in the UK or really
anywhere in the world that I've
encountered that really managed to
take on a really stubborn incumbent in
the as it relates to the banking
industry here. Spotify is one of the
examples I sometimes think of
because there was no way you could make
you know move move away the rights and
the music rights and move it to digital
and then charge people like so that
again I I consider Daniel to be a
lunatic but
yeah incredible
yeah it's I consider this to be the same
so yeah thank you for the inspiration
thank you for the courage and I think
your story is one of you know it's one
in you know a hundred million I do have
one request though
and this is where the diary comes in
Okay.
Okay. So,
um, so what we do with all of our guests
when they come on the show is they all
write a question in the diary for the
next guest,
right?
So, our last guest rose wrote a question
for you.
Do you really understand the purpose of
your life here on Earth?
No, I don't. I think that I nobody ever
sort of discovers their purpose until
probably too late.
Um, and I think thinking about that
question too hard
is probably too difficult.
I think the purpose of your life will
only be discovered
once it's too late.
You don't think it's
what you're doing now.
Would you suspect
I think I'm on the start of a journey
rather than the end.
I think I want to do more than just make
Stalin the best bank in the world. I
think Stalin will do its bit to help
people with their financial health.
But I think it's also important to nudge
society in the right direction.
And I can do that with a platform of
stalling
nudging society in the right direction
in terms of
yeah fairness.
Fairness. Equality.
Yes. I think the world is very unfair in
lots of different ways. And it's not
just fair between countries. There's
very very you know different people have
different experiences this life. You
know, I have been extremely fortunate,
but the girl growing up next door had
probably had a very, very different life
to me. And by an accident of birth,
we experience a very, very different
life.
I'm getting prime minister vibes.
I have no no intention of becoming a
politician. It's far too hard.
Okay. But you can, as you say, you refer
to Staling as a platform and that's, you
know, being able to influence the
electorate.
Yeah.
Is equally important um as as being the
the puppet in charge. So,
I'm going to ask you to write a question
in the book. Thank you so much for
coming today. It's been a wonderful
Thank you very much for inviting me. I
really enjoyed it. Thank you very much.
Heat. Heat. N.
[Music]